in this video we'll talk about matrix
addition and subtraction as well as how
to multiply a matrix by number also
called scalar multiplication let's start
with an example given two matrices like
these let's say I want to add them
together how do I do that and so what
this addition of matrices means it turns
out that if you want to add two matrices
what you do is you just add up the
elements of these matrices one at a time
so my result of adding two matrices is
going to be itself another matrix and
the first element again just by taking
one and four and multiplying them and
adding them together so I get five the
second element I get by taking two and
two and adding them so get four three
plus three plus zero is three and so on
we'll stop changing colors I guess and
on the right is 0.5 ten and two and it
turns out you can add only two matrices
that out of the same dimension so this
example is a three by two matrix because
this has V rows and two columns so
there's three by two this is also a
three by two matrix and the result of
adding these two matrices is a three by
two matrix again so you can only add
matrices of the same dimension and the
result would be another matrix of the
same dimension as as the ones you just
added whereas in contrast you were to
take these two matrices so this one is a
three by two matrix so again three rows
two columns this here is a two by two
matrix and because these two matrices
are not of the same dimension you know
this this is an error so you cannot add
these two matrices and you know their
sum is not well-defined
so that's matrixes next let's talk about
multiplying matrices by a by a scalar
number and the scalar is just maybe a
overly fancy term for you know a number
or a real number right the scalar just
means real number so let's take the
number 3 and multiply it by this matrix
if you do that the result is pretty much
what you'd expect you just take your
elements of the matrix and multiply them
by 3 1 at a time so you know 1 times 3
is 3 what 2 times 3 6 3 times 3 is 9 and
let's see I'm going to stop changing
colors again 0 times 3 is 0 3 times 5 is
15 and 3 times 1 is 3 and so this matrix
is the result of multiplying that matrix
on the left by 2b and you notice again
this is a 3 by 2 matrix and the result
is a matrix of the same dimension this
is a 3 by 2 both of these are 3 by 2
dimensional matrices and by the way you
can write multiplication you know either
way so I had 3 times this matrix I could
also have written this matrix 1 0 2 5 3
1 right I just copied this matrix over
to the right I can also take this matrix
and multiply this line 3 so whether it's
you know 3 times the matrix or the
matrix times 3 is the same thing and
this thing here in the middle is the
result you can also take a matrix and
divide it by a number so turns out
taking this matrix and dividing it by 4
this is actually the same as taking the
number one quarter and multiplying it by
this matrix 4 0 6 3 and so you know in
very answer the result of this product
is you know 1/4 times 4 is 1 100 2 times
0 0 1 or 2 times 6 is what 3 has that 6
over 4 is 3 arms and 1 whole 2 times 3
is equal to and so that's a result of
computing this matrix divided by 4 that
gives you yourself
finally for a slightly more complicated
example you can also take these
operations and combine them together
so in this calculation I have three
times the vector plus a vector minus
another vector divided by three so just
make sure we know what these are right
this multiplication this is an example
of scalar multiplication because I'm
taking three and multiplying it and this
is you know another scalar
multiplication or going to write scalar
division I guess this really just means
one three times this and so if we
evaluate these two operations first then
what we get is this thing is equal to
let's see so three times that vector is
three twelve six plus my vacuum in the
middle which is a zero zero five minus
one zero two thirds all right and again
just to make sure we understand what's
going on here this plus symbol that is
matrix addition right already since
these are vectors remember vectors are
special cases of matrices are just you
can also call this vector addition and
this minus sign here this is again you
know matrix subtraction but because this
is a n by one really a 3 by 1 matrix
that this is actually a vector so this
is also vector just call call this
matrix a vector subtraction as well ok
and finally to wrap this up this
therefore gives me a vector whose first
element is going to be 3 plus 0 minus 1
so that's 3 minus 1 which is 2 the
second element is 12 plus 0 minus 0
which is 12 and the third element of
this is 6 plus 5 minus 2/3 which is a
11 minus 2/3 so that's 10 in 1/3 I'm
going to close my square bracket and so
this gives me a 3 by 1 matrix which is
also just called a 3 dimensional vector
right which is the outcome of this
calculation over here so that's how you
add and subtract matrices and vectors
and multiply them by scalars so by real
numbers so far I've only talked about
how to multiply matrices and vectors by
scalars by real numbers in the next
video we'll talk about the a much more
interesting step of taking two matrices
and multiplying two matrices together